This paper explores the advanced application of Convo-
lutional Neural Networks (CNN’s) in classifying dog heart
X-ray images. Utilizing a comprehensive dataset catego-
rized into Small, Normal, and Large classes, our research
aims to pioneer novel methodologies for enhancing image
classification accuracy in veterinary diagnostics. Drawing
inspiration from recent advances in medical imaging, we
applied data augmentation techniques such as resizing, ran-
dom horizontal flipping, rotation, and color jittering to en-
rich the training dataset. A custom CNN architecture was
developed using PyTorch, featuring three convolutional lay-
ers and fully connected layers with dropout regularization
to mitigate over-fitting. Our iterative training process fo-
cused on fine-tuning the model to achieve optimal perfor-
mance. The model’s efficacy was validated using a ded-
icated validation set, and the best-performing model was
subsequently tested on an unlabeled test dataset. The study
aims to push the boundaries of current CNN applications
in medical image classification, demonstrating significant
potential for improving diagnostic accuracy. The datasets
used for this research provided a robust foundation for our
experiments, enabling substantial advancements in model
performance. This investigation contributes to the broader
discourse on medical image analysis by proposing scalable
solutions for CNN-based diagnostic tools
